OBSERVATIONS:

You can now enter the exact altitude of an observation, along side latitude and
longitude.  Note that it remembers the values from the last observation you
created.

You can now enter latitude and longitude in degrees-minutes-seconds.  These are
all equivalent:

  -12.5824
  12 34.946' W
  12 34' 56.8" W

You can also enter altitude in feet.  These are equivalent:

  1234
  1234m
  4049'
  4049ft

(Note: create and edit location forms still require decimal lat/long, and
elevation in meters!)



LOCATIONS:

Species lists have "real" location now: just like observations, you can
"define" the location for a species list.  If you create a species list with an
"undefined" location, you will be sent to the create location form to define
it.  This will automatically define the location for all the observations in
that species list, as well.

MO will no longer complain about "redundant counties" in existing locations.
If you ignore the warnings when you create the location, it will accept the
title as you have typed it, and it will never complain about it again.

When you "define" an "undefined" location it updates all observations and
species lists at that location.



IMAGES:

Image votes may now no longer be anonymous.  All existing votes are kept
anonymous.  All future votes will have same privacy as your votes on
observation names.  That is, you can specify whether your votes are anonymous
or not.  Unlike name votes, though, when you change back and forth, it will not
change all your existing votes, just future votes.  We strongly encourage all
votes be public to help avoid disputes.  To make all your old votes public, use
this link (found at the top of "Your Preferences" along with the
copyright bulk updater):

https://mushroomobserver.org/image/bulk_vote_anonymity_updater

We now keep the original name of uploaded image files.  This is visible on the
observation and image page, as well as the image index.  You can search and
sort results based on this name, too.  You can also enter/edit the name by hand
if necessary.

MO now handles upload better.  Full-size images should always be available now.

MO now keeps track of changes in copyright settings for each image.  This is
very important for wikipedians who require documentation to prove that images
really did have wikipedia-compatible licenses at the time they were posted on
wikipedia.

When you change your name in your profile, it will automatically update all
your images, as well.



SPECIES LISTS:

You can now enter latitude, longitude, and altitude in create and edit form,
just like in observation forms.  (That means it accepts degrees-minutes-seconds
and feet, like for observations, too.)

You can now explicitly state your confidence level for observations created via
the create species list form.  (It used to default variously to no vote at all
or "I'd call it that".)

The write-in area now auto-completes names for you.

Comments are now allowed.

There is a prototype bulk-editor that lets you edit up to 100 observations at
time.  This is very provisional still.  Please let us know what you think.  We
are working on an alternative which will be more widely applicable and easier
to understand, as well.



PROJECTS:

Observations, images and species lists can now belong to projects... however we
are still working on the interface that actually allows you to attach these
objects to a project!  Just something to look forward to in the near future.
We expect this to be the preferred method for the folks doing NAMA forays and
the folks down at the Bolivian National Herbarium to enter data, instead of
creating "fake" user accounts for these initiatives.

